###############
Download      #
###############

The source files for the most current distribution of DFS are available at 
[LINK]. You can either download the zip package or clone it in any given 
user-available directory by using git:
    
    git clone [LINK2]

If you have downloaded the zip package you need to unzip it:

    unzip dfs.zip

###############
Prerequisites #
###############

DFS is a collection of Python and Cython libraries and scripts. The software is
avalalble for Linux and OS X/macOS. Installing and running the DFS scripts has
the following requirements:

* Python 2.x (>= 2.7)
* Cython >= 0.18
* Python 2 packages: setuptools, numpy, h5py, prody

The installation instructions for prerequisite packages are included in the
following section. These should cover standard Linux and OS X/macOS
configurations. Please refer to your system administrator or the relevant OS
documentation for specific cases not covered here.

###############
Installation  #
###############

Linux - Debian-based (Debian, Ubuntu and others)
-------------------------------------------------

Please note that all the commands that start with "sudo" requires to be run by
user with adminstrative permissions in most of Debian-based distributions.

1. Installation of Python and Cython packages using the package manager apt:

    sudo apt-get update && sudo apt-get install cython python-dev \
    python-numpy python-setuptools python-pip python-h5py build-essential

2. Installation of prody package using pip
   (system-wide case):

    sudo pip install prody

   (local user case):
    
    pip install prody --user

3. Installation of the DFS package. Enter the dfs directory: 
   (system-wide case):

    sudo python2.7 setup.py install --record files.txt

   (local user case):

    python2.7 setup.py install --user --record files.txt

This will build the Cython/C files as well as copy the installation files in
their destination directories. If you have installed the package system-wise,
the user-executable scripts will already be available to the user as they are
copied by default in /usr/local/bin. If the installation has been performed as a
normal user, the files are usually located inside the current user's home
directory $HOME (usually $HOME/.local/lib/python2.7/site-packages/dfsutils for
the library files and $HOME/.local/bin/ for the scripts). The location of these
files can be verified by reading the content of files.txt in the installation
directory, in which the installation location of each file contained in the
package is recorded during the installation. 

It is advisable to add the scripts directory in the PATH system variable.
Assuming that your script files are located in $HOME/.local/bin/ this can be
done with:

	export PATH=$PATH:$HOME/.local/bin/

This line can also be added to the .profile or .bashrc file in the user's $HOME
so that it is run every time a shell is opened.

OS X / macOS
------------

The installation of DFS on an OS X / macOS computer requires Xcode with
command-line tools. Xcode can be obtained from the App store. The command line
tools can be installed by running:

    sudo xcode-select --install

and following the on-screen instructions.

1. Installation of Python and Cython packages:

    sudo easy_install pip
    sudo pip install numpy h5py prody

   Alternatively, if the MacPorts package system (http://macports.org) is available:

    sudo port selfupdate && sudo port install py27-setuptools py27-numpy \
    py27-cython py27-pip py27-setuptools py27-h5py
    
2. Installation of prody package using pip

    sudo pip-2.7 install prody

3. Installation of the DFS package. Enter the dfs directory: 
   (system-wide case):

    sudo python2.7 setup.py install --record files.txt

   (local user case):

    python2.7 setup.py install --user --record files.txt


This will build the Cython/C files as well as copy the installation files in
their destination directory. The position on the file-systems of the installed
files can vary, depending on whether you are using the system Python
installation or the one shipped with MacPorts. However, you will be able to
identify the location of the script files by looking into the files.txt log file
which is written in the installation directory.

It is advisable to add the scripts directory in the PATH system variable.
Assuming that your script files are located in $HOME/.local/bin/ this can be
done with (where /path/to/files is the location reported in files.txt):

	export PATH=$PATH:/path/to/files/

this line can also be added to the .profile or .bashrc file in the user's $HOME
so that it is run every time a shell is opened.
